RUNTIME VALIDATION — FICTIONAL WORK SAMPLE
Daniel | September 9, 2026

Purpose
A small demonstration of spec-driven review with reproducible inputs, observed behavior, a targeted revision and regression checks. This is a deliberately constructed example, not a previous client's system and not a review of your code.

Contract used for this sample
Input is a JSON object containing exactly op, a and b. op must equal "add". Operands must be integer JSON tokens within signed 64-bit range. Their sum must also remain within that range. Duplicate keys, extra fields, non-standard JSON constants, strings, booleans and floating-point tokens are rejected.

Observed checks
26 explicit fixtures were run locally against an original Python example and a revised version. Original: 17/26 matched the contract. Revised: 26/26 matched. Valid cases included both range boundaries, zero, negatives and cancellation across the boundaries. Rejections included malformed JSON, missing fields, wrong operations, top-level arrays/null and trailing data.

Finding 1: boolean values accepted as integers
Input: {"op":"add","a":true,"b":2}
Expected: rejection. Original result: 3.
Cause: isinstance(value, int) also accepts Python booleans.
Revision: require type(value) is int.
Verified by fixtures for both true and false.

Finding 2: duplicate keys silently replace earlier values
Input: {"op":"add","a":1,"a":9,"b":2}
Expected: rejection. Original result: 11.
Revision: detect duplicate keys during JSON object construction.
This prevents a caller's first value from being silently discarded.

Finding 3: operand and result ranges are unchecked
Input: {"op":"add","a":9223372036854775807,"b":1}
Expected: rejection. Original result: 9223372036854775808.
Revision: check each operand and the result against the stated signed 64-bit limits.
Verified independently for upper/lower operand bounds, overflow and underflow.

Finding 4: strict input contract is not enforced
Input: {"op":"add","a":2,"b":3,"extra":4}
Expected: rejection. Original result: 5.
An extra field containing NaN was also accepted and ignored.
Revision: require the exact field set and reject non-standard JSON constants during decoding.

Scope and limits
The test runner normalizes ValueError, KeyError and TypeError to rejection; it does not assert production error codes or messages. The suite is a focused regression sample, not an exhaustive proof or security audit. Only Python was executed. No Rust runtime, browser interface, client repository, deployment or confidential data was examined.

How this maps to a multi-runtime review
Agree acceptance rules first, turn each rule into shared fixtures, run the same inputs against each implementation, and report disagreements with exact reproduction steps. Separate a disagreement with the specification from an ambiguity in the specification. Deliver a requirement-to-test map, prioritized findings, targeted fixes if included in scope, and a rerunnable results report.

Source and fixtures are available on request.
